So time to add firebase authentication.
Now, we do already have an authentication module in the course, but again, there I showed you the
more generic way of authenticating.
Yes, we did use Firebase there, but only as a dummy back.
And we use the firebase rest API to send a regular HTP request to Firebase.
And then, for example, we had to manage that token that identified the user on our own.
We manually had to attach it to outgoing HTP requests.
We had to manage its lifetime.
We had to validate the token.
All of that had to be done by us.
Now, I did use that approach because I find it super important that, you know, this generic way of
doing it, because you might not always be using Firebase.
You might be working with any rest API that exposes such a sign up or a log in endpoint.
And therefore that was crucial information.
However, if you are using Firebase, you can have an easier life by simply using the FIREBASE Authentication
SDK, an extra package that helps us with creating users, with signing users up, and most importantly,
with managing that token.
You can search for Flutter Firebase off to find that firebase off package, and you can simply go to
the installation instructions here, grab that dependency and go back to our PUP Spectate YAML file
and added their below cloud firestorm.
And now this will download and add this firebase off package to the flutter project.
And this package will make our lives much easier.
Now, for that to work, we first of all need to go back to our Flattr project here in the Web console
and go to authentication there and here under authentication.
Click on set up Sinon method because we need to configure this FIREBASE project to support authentication
before we can use authentication in our app.
So click on set up Sinon method and you got plenty of Sinon methods to choose from.
The official Firebase Docs help you with them.
I will go for the traditional email password, sign up.
So click and here leave the defaults then as they are and click on Save.
And with that enabled, we can go back to our application and here in submit of form, I now want to
use the firebase auth package, which we just added, to ever create a new user or to log a user in
the form that we can check if is log in is true, in which case you want to log a user in, or if it's
false, in which case we want to create a new user.
Now, for that, we, first of all, need to import this package, the fire base off package and from
that fire base off Dodge Dart.
And then here.
In the entire screen St. Clause, we can create a new final variable which will name off, which is
fire based off dot instance like this, this will give us an instance to the fire base off object,
which is automatically set up and managed by the fire base off package.
We don't need to do anything for that.
It's all managed behind the scenes because of that fire base configuration and linking we did earlier
in this module.
So now we get this off object here, we can now use this here and is log in case, for example, to
call sign in with email and password.
And this one's two arguments, surprisingly, the email and password so we can forward these two values,
these two variables, email and password, which we're receiving here now.
This will log a user in or it will try to do so.
Now, sign in with Emelin, password actually returns a future.
Here you can tell that it returns a future which will then unwrap itself to an all result in the end.
Now, for that, I will add a new variable here, which will be of type of result and I'll name it all
result.
Which will simply hold that future here.
And now the important thing is, as I just said, this gives us a future, not directly the result.
So to get the result, I will turn this into an async function by adding async here between the argument
list and the function body.
And then we can await here.
And as you all learned in the course, does, will basically wait for this future to complete and then
stored the result in the off result variable.
And we can do something similar here in the Ellis case, which is the sign up case there we call off
and now it's create user with email and password, and we still pass to email and password as arguments
to dysfunction.
So that's pretty straightforward, not difficult.
We have these two options, we send these requests and again, behind the scenes, Firebase will go
ahead, sent the request and automatically stored to token if the request succeeds and managed to token
lifetime for us.
That's all taken care of now for the username.
We're not doing anything with that yet.
Will soon do so.
And we're also not doing something with the off result here.
Will do so soon to.
One thing I want to do immediately is I want to add error, handling this here can fail.
And when you're using a single weight, you can use try catch to try something and potentially catch
errors.
So here, I'll wrap all of that in a tribe lock and then down there catch any error, however, not
any error.
I want to catch a specific type of error and we can do this with the own keyword.
I want to catch any error of type platform exception.
That should essentially be errors that are thrown by Firebase because we, for example, entered an
invalid email or an invalid password or anything like that.
In that case, I'll set up a message.
An error occurred.
Please check your credentials.
That's the general error message, but we'll also look into the error object we're getting and see if
we have a more specific message there so we can check if an error message is unlike now.
So if it's not equal to null, so if we have an error message, in which case I'll overwrite message
and set it equal to error message.
And then if we do have such a message, it would be nice to show, for example, a little message to
the user, and for this we can use scaffold off context to show a snack bar.
Now, the snack bar is this little message thing that comes up from the bottom of the screen and show
is an error to the user.
And here we create a snack bar by instantiating the snack bar widget, which chips with flutter and
cute snack bar we can pass to content argument instead of a text widget which shows the message we want
to show.
So does value, which is stored in the message variable.
And you can also set the background color of this snack bar.
And here I'll use theme of context, dot air or color.
And this should be a nice red color for this snack bar.
Now, after this, so often is on platform exception catch block, I'll add another catch block which
catches any other errors we might have.
There shouldn't be many, but in case there are errors, I'll print them here so that we during development
can see them at least.
OK, that was a lot of work, we're not done, but let's see whether this works thus far.
If I save this and I try to sign up and I enter, test a test of com and I enter a valid password and
enter some username, the username is not getting stored anyways right now.
So it doesn't matter.
But if I enter some username and I click sign up.
I see no error.
At least I do see an error here regarding the missing plugin exception and a simple app restart should
fix this.
So let's close this running process and again, restart in general if you get such a missing plug in
or simply restart the app entirely and try again.
So let's wait for that to come up again.
And if we now go back and try to create a new account again.
And for all those credentials.
Sign up again, no error here, but an error here.
Let's see what's wrong.
And we see that we have a problem with the scaffold off function.
No scaffold ancestor could be found.
That's essentially the problem we we have here.
Now, before we tackle this.
Let's switch to Firebase and go to users there under authentication, and you shouldn't see a user there
because something went wrong.
That's the reason why we tried to show that snack bar.
But they're also something went wrong.
So we got a couple of errors.
The problem here is that on this scaffolded.
I'm using a context here to basically tell Flutter, in which context to render the scaffold.
The problem is here I'm using the context of this of a screen, and this is actually the wrong context
here.
Instead, we should accept the build context here as an extra argument in submit off form and use this
context instead.
So here, use this argument also for the theme.
Now, you might be wondering, where is this build context coming from?
Currently from nowhere.
We have to pass it.
So we have to go to the office for him and for one, make it clear here on this submit function property
that we need to pass the context here because we want it in that other screen and therefore we need
to pass it here.
So when we call segment function as a lost argument, I'll forward my context, because this year from
the OTH forum is the context that actually has access to the surrounding scaffold, which in turn is
the context where the snack bar should be mounted on because offscreen context does not have access
to this scaffold, because this scaffold here is rendered by the off screen.
Now the context of the off screen is one level above that.
So in order to have access to this scaffold on which the snack bar should be rendered, we have to dive
into a widget which is inside that scaffold and the context of that which it is then the right one.
And that's just the case for off for him.
So with that, we should now at least see an error message, if I click sign up and I do, the email
address is badly formatted now.
It looks like a valid email address to me, but it is does extra white space at the end here, which
is causing problems.
Now, this is a bad user experience that we are not able to authenticate because of this.
So therefore I'll go back to the offering widget and when a forward user email and so on, I will actually
call Trem on those values to remove any X's whitespace at the beginning and end.
So this will remove any excess white space on email, password and username and therefore will not get
this error because I will not send this whitespace as part of the email.
So if we now click sign up, this closes and now we get no error.
And now if we go back to the Web console and you refresh this user's list, you should see your user
here with your email address.
And this was now created by this firebase of SDK.
So that's pretty, pretty sweet.
We also saw the error handling in action.
So that's great to end with that.
We can create users.
That's a nice first step.
They are now stored and this token, which is sent back by Firebase, is already managed by the FIREBASE
package.
We don't need to do anything, dear.
It will even be automatically added to outgoing requests which were later going to send.
So that's entirely happening behind the scenes, which is super, super awesome and takes a lot of work
away from us.
However, the authentication process is not fully finished.
We will later also add image upload, but that will follow well, later.
But one thing I want to do immediately is stored a user name and that's currently not happening.
We're getting the user name, but we're not doing anything with it.
So let's make sure we also store the user name.